README.md, before:

# Hive Storage Handler for JDBC

The **Hive Storage Handler For JDBC** by [Qubole](www.qubole.com), which is a fork of [HiveJdbcStorageHandler](https://github.com/myui/HiveJdbcStorageHandler), helps users read from and write to JDBC databases using Hive, and also enabling them to run SQL queries to analyze data that resides in JDBC tables.
Optimizations such as [FilterPushDown](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/FilterPushdownDev) have also been added.

**The sovrn-specific modifications for AWS are as follows:**

1. Change the name of the package from `org.qubole.*` to `com.sovrn.*`. 
This makes it clearer which version is being used, as in DFW3 we previously used the same classes in 
the `org.qubole.*` package, stored under the `sovrn/hive` repository.
2. In `JdbcInputFormat`, the job configuration parameter `mapred.map.tasks` 
is set to `2`. 
This avoids the lack of proper split computation we saw on EMR 5.12, where over 3000 mappers 
were being assigned to read MySQL tables that are small enough to only require 1 or 2 mappers. My (jmweiner) efforts to get the `lazy.split` table configuration 
parameter to work were unsuccessful--I suspect this is because there is a small difference in MapReduce for Hive 2.3.2 versus 
MapR Hive 1.0. The number of mappers `2` was chosen based on the observation that nearly all the `hotlink` tables in DFW3 were 
auto-assigned 2 mappers.
3. Changed the Hive and Hadoop dependencies in `pom.xml` to match the versions in EMR. There was one significant change 
associated with this, changing the `SerDe` interface to `AbstractSerDe` abstract class. Also added a Maven build 
profile, `-Phadoop-2`, to distinguish from Qubole's `-Phadoop-1`.

## Building from Source
* Download the code from Github:
```
  $ git clone https://github.com/sovrn/Hive-JDBC-storage-Handler.git
  $ cd Hive-JDBC-storage-Handler
```

* Build using Maven (add ```-DskipTests``` to build without running tests):

```
  $ mvn clean install -Phadoop-2
```

* The JARs for the storage handler can be found in the ```target/``` folder. Use ```qubole-hive-JDBC-0.0.4.jar``` in the hive session (see below).

## Usage
* Add the JAR to the Hive session. ```<path-to-jar>``` is the path to the above mentioned JAR. For using this with Qubole hive, upload the JAR to an S3 bucket and provide its path.
  
``` 
  ADD JAR <path-to-jar>;
```

* Each record in the JDBC corresponds to a row in the Hive table.

* While creating the Hive table, use 
  
```
  STORED BY 'com.sovrn.hadoop.hive.jdbc.storagehandler.JdbcStorageHandler'
```
  
## Table Creation
Table can be created in 2 ways:
1. Column mappings can be explicitly given along with the table creation statement.

```
DROP TABLE HiveTable;
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE HiveTable(
  id INT,
  id_double DOUBLE,
  names STRING,
  test INT
)
STORED BY 'com.sovrn.hadoop.hive.jdbc.storagehandler.JdbcStorageHandler'
TBLPROPERTIES (
  "mapred.jdbc.driver.class"="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver",
  "mapred.jdbc.url"="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/rstore",
  "mapred.jdbc.username"="root",
  "mapred.jdbc.input.table.name"="JDBCTable",
  "mapred.jdbc.output.table.name"="JDBCTable",
  "mapred.jdbc.password"="",
  "mapred.jdbc.hive.lazy.split"= "false"
);

```

2. No column mappings are specified. The SerDe class automatically generates those mappings.

```
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE HiveTable
row format serde 'com.sovrn.hadoop.hive.jdbc.storagehandler.JdbcSerDe'
STORED BY 'com.sovrn.hadoop.hive.jdbc.storagehandler.JdbcStorageHandler'
TBLPROPERTIES (
  "mapred.jdbc.driver.class"="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver",
  "mapred.jdbc.url"="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/rstore",
  "mapred.jdbc.username"="root",
  "mapred.jdbc.input.table.name"="JDBCTable",
  "mapred.jdbc.output.table.name" = "JDBCTable",
  "mapred.jdbc.password"="",
  "mapred.jdbc.hive.lazy.split"= "false"
);
```

```
NOTE: "mapred.jdbc.hive.lazy.split"= "true" property enables 
       split computation to be done by mappers internally.
```

## Sample Queries

HIVE-JDBC Storage Handelr supports almost all types of possible SQL queries. 
Some examples of supported queries are:

#### SELECT 
```
* select * from HiveTable;
* Select count(*) from HiveTable;
* select id from HiveTable where id > 50000;
* select names from HiveTable;
* select * from HiveTable where names like ‘D%’;
* SELECT * FROM HiveTable ORDER BY id DESC;
```
#### GROUP BY
```
* select id, sum(id_double) as sum_double from HiveTable group by id;

```
#### JOIN
```
* select HiveTable_1.*, HiveTable_2.* from HiveTable_1 a join HiveTable_2 b 
  on (a.id = b.id) where a.id > 90000 and b.id > 97000 ;
```
#### INSERT
```
* Insert Into Table HiveTable_1 select * from HiveTable_2;
* Insert Into Table HiveTable_1 select * from HiveTable_2 
 where id > 50000 and upper(names) = 'ANN';
```

## Support For FilterPushDown

* Support for FilterPushDown has been added to the jar as described in the following [wiki] (https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/FilterPushdownDev)
* To disable FilterPushDown 
```
 set hive.optimize.ppd = false;
```
## Contributions
* https://github.com/myui/HiveJdbcStorageHandler
* https://github.com/hava101
* https://github.com/stagraqubole
* https://github.com/divyanshu25

Commit message:

added usage notes to README

README.md, after:

# Hive Storage Handler for JDBC

The **Hive Storage Handler For JDBC** by [Qubole](www.qubole.com), which is a fork of [HiveJdbcStorageHandler](https://github.com/myui/HiveJdbcStorageHandler), helps users read from and write to JDBC databases using Hive, and also enabling them to run SQL queries to analyze data that resides in JDBC tables.
Optimizations such as [FilterPushDown](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/FilterPushdownDev) have also been added.

**The sovrn-specific modifications for AWS are as follows:**

1. Change the name of the package from `org.qubole.*` to `com.sovrn.*`. 
This makes it clearer which version is being used, as in DFW3 we previously used the same classes in 
the `org.qubole.*` package, stored under the `sovrn/hive` repository.
2. In `JdbcInputFormat`, the job configuration parameter `mapred.map.tasks` 
is set to `2`. 
This avoids the lack of proper split computation we saw on EMR 5.12, where over 3000 mappers 
were being assigned to read MySQL tables that are small enough to only require 1 or 2 mappers. My (jmweiner) efforts to get the `lazy.split` table configuration 
parameter to work were unsuccessful--I suspect this is because there is a small difference in MapReduce for Hive 2.3.2 versus 
MapR Hive 1.0. The number of mappers `2` was chosen based on the observation that nearly all the `hotlink` tables in DFW3 were 
auto-assigned 2 mappers.
3. Changed the Hive and Hadoop dependencies in `pom.xml` to match the versions in EMR. There was one significant change 
associated with this, changing the `SerDe` interface to `AbstractSerDe` abstract class. Also added a Maven build 
profile, `-Phadoop-2`, to distinguish from Qubole's `-Phadoop-1`.

## Notes on Usage
The resulting JAR should be put in a directory that is part of Hive's classpath (the best place would be a symlink 
in `/usr/lib/hive/auxlib/` pointing to the JAR location in `/usr/share/java` as for the other aux libs). 

Otherwise, using the `ADD JAR` syntax, there will be Kryo serialization errors if `hive.exec.parallel=true` (default).
You could `SET hive.exec.parallel=false` but that will probably make your query run slower.

A convenient location for hosting the JAR is the DAT account bucket `s3://sovrn-datasci/hive_jars/`.

The shaded JAR (larger file size, with `-final.jar` extension) does not seem to be necessary.

## Building from Source
* Download the code from Github:
```
  $ git clone https://github.com/sovrn/Hive-JDBC-storage-Handler.git
  $ cd Hive-JDBC-storage-Handler
```

* Build using Maven (add ```-DskipTests``` to build without running tests):

```
  $ mvn clean install -Phadoop-2
```

* The JARs for the storage handler can be found in the ```target/``` folder. Use ```qubole-hive-JDBC-0.0.4.jar``` in the hive session (see below).

## Usage
* Add the JAR to the Hive session. ```<path-to-jar>``` is the path to the above mentioned JAR. For using this with Qubole hive, upload the JAR to an S3 bucket and provide its path.
  
``` 
  ADD JAR <path-to-jar>;
```

* Each record in the JDBC corresponds to a row in the Hive table.

* While creating the Hive table, use 
  
```
  STORED BY 'com.sovrn.hadoop.hive.jdbc.storagehandler.JdbcStorageHandler'
```
  
## Table Creation
Table can be created in 2 ways:
1. Column mappings can be explicitly given along with the table creation statement.

```
DROP TABLE HiveTable;
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE HiveTable(
  id INT,
  id_double DOUBLE,
  names STRING,
  test INT
)
STORED BY 'com.sovrn.hadoop.hive.jdbc.storagehandler.JdbcStorageHandler'
TBLPROPERTIES (
  "mapred.jdbc.driver.class"="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver",
  "mapred.jdbc.url"="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/rstore",
  "mapred.jdbc.username"="root",
  "mapred.jdbc.input.table.name"="JDBCTable",
  "mapred.jdbc.output.table.name"="JDBCTable",
  "mapred.jdbc.password"="",
  "mapred.jdbc.hive.lazy.split"= "false"
);

```

2. No column mappings are specified. The SerDe class automatically generates those mappings.

```
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE HiveTable
row format serde 'com.sovrn.hadoop.hive.jdbc.storagehandler.JdbcSerDe'
STORED BY 'com.sovrn.hadoop.hive.jdbc.storagehandler.JdbcStorageHandler'
TBLPROPERTIES (
  "mapred.jdbc.driver.class"="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver",
  "mapred.jdbc.url"="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/rstore",
  "mapred.jdbc.username"="root",
  "mapred.jdbc.input.table.name"="JDBCTable",
  "mapred.jdbc.output.table.name" = "JDBCTable",
  "mapred.jdbc.password"="",
  "mapred.jdbc.hive.lazy.split"= "false"
);
```

```
NOTE: "mapred.jdbc.hive.lazy.split"= "true" property enables 
       split computation to be done by mappers internally.
```

## Sample Queries

HIVE-JDBC Storage Handelr supports almost all types of possible SQL queries. 
Some examples of supported queries are:

#### SELECT 
```
* select * from HiveTable;
* Select count(*) from HiveTable;
* select id from HiveTable where id > 50000;
* select names from HiveTable;
* select * from HiveTable where names like ‘D%’;
* SELECT * FROM HiveTable ORDER BY id DESC;
```
#### GROUP BY
```
* select id, sum(id_double) as sum_double from HiveTable group by id;

```
#### JOIN
```
* select HiveTable_1.*, HiveTable_2.* from HiveTable_1 a join HiveTable_2 b 
  on (a.id = b.id) where a.id > 90000 and b.id > 97000 ;
```
#### INSERT
```
* Insert Into Table HiveTable_1 select * from HiveTable_2;
* Insert Into Table HiveTable_1 select * from HiveTable_2 
 where id > 50000 and upper(names) = 'ANN';
```

## Support For FilterPushDown

* Support for FilterPushDown has been added to the jar as described in the following [wiki] (https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/FilterPushdownDev)
* To disable FilterPushDown 
```
 set hive.optimize.ppd = false;
```
## Contributions
* https://github.com/myui/HiveJdbcStorageHandler
* https://github.com/hava101
* https://github.com/stagraqubole
* https://github.com/divyanshu25
